content/posts/hindsight.md, before:

---
title: "Hindsight"
date: 2023-01-03T13:46:30-05:00
publishdate: 2023-01-03T13:46:30-05:00
draft: false
summary: 'Some quick-ish, personal anecdotes as we head into the new year and inspired by events at the end of 2022.'
tags: [personal]
---

Hindsight has been my most consistent teacher, and 2022 provided no shortage of opportunities to look backwards and learn (or remember) something. This past holiday season was particularly fruitful. To kick off my writing journey for the year, I wanted to start with some personal reminders. Most of my writing will be tech or business-focused. This first offering of the year may be more cathartic for me than anything. Still, someone may need a gentle nudge in the same direction, and I hope this helps.

**Remember the basics.**

A few days before Christmas, I was finishing up a minor remodel to our 1/2 bathroom. New paint, some new fixtures, nothing crazy. I had pulled out the sink to paint behind it correctly. As I was installing a new light fixture - a relatively simple task - I dropped my screwdriver, which perfectly hit one of the water lines from the wall. I mean, this was a 3/4" pipe, tiny. Dumb luck. The 30-year-old peanut brittle of a plastic pipe burst open as the valve hit the ground, filling the bathroom with at least an inch of water within a few moments. And here is a lesson about basics: Do you happen to know where your water shutoff is or how to shut the water off from your curb (if you're in a house)? Yep. I didn't. We've been here for a year, and other priorities distracted me from learning the home (*thanks, Netflix*). I'll keep the story short, but looking back, I should have known where the in-home shutoff was (it's in my coat closet, underneath a ton of other stuff, if you must know). Remember the basics. This applies to everything you do.

**Make (more) time for your family, especially if you're distant.**

On Dec. 26th, a family friend called to tell me that my stepmother had been admitted to hospice due to an aggressive form of cancer. Quick backstory, my father passed away about a decade ago, and my stepmother lived alone with no other family to speak of. However, she has an extensive family of friends for whom I'm incredibly grateful. She and I weren't incredibly close while he was alive, but we grew closer after his passing. Living several states away, we kept tabs on each other via social media, usually only speaking on holidays or around the anniversary of my father's passing. She had previously fought a long, hard battle with breast cancer, and I knew that she was both exhausted from that battle and sorely missing her life mate. She opted not to fight this round and passed peacefully only a couple of days after entering hospice. And the lesson for me? More hindsight. I didn't call her on Christmas Day as I usually would have. I was caught up in other things. Fortunately, we had a chance to see each other back in August, but why didn't I reach out more? Why didn't I invite her to my house more often or explicitly? Of course, this isn't about me - at all - but it's a stark reminder that relationships require effort and care, just like a garden. Don't forget about people in your life just because they're out of sight. 

**Keep an eye out for those around you who might be struggling in the shadows. Or - if you're struggling, find and accept help.**

To cap the holiday week, my wife and I were driving with our son on the interstate on the morning of New Year's Day. As we cleared an overpass, I noticed a car swerve in the lanes opposite us, dodging some trash in the onramp lane. But as we got to where the debris was, it was not trash but a human being lying on their back in the middle of the lane. As cars continued to race past, I came to a hard stop, leaving my wife and son safely in the truck on the far side of the interstate while I sprinted the 200m or so to this person. I was the first to arrive, while others helped to slow and redirect traffic. Thinking the worst, the woman I saw on the ground moved her head a little and moaned as I approached. She was a mess and certainly concussed, but she could give me her name. I asked her how she got into the middle of the interstate, to which she replied, "I jumped." before she passed out. With the help of others who had stopped, we tried to stabilize her while emergency crews quickly made their way to the scene.

Again trying to keep a long story from being too long, I had a 200m walk back to my truck to process what I saw and why. In that short walk, my life's blessings moved to the forefront. My first-world complaints became minuscule, sickening even. But the lesson? How many people in my life are at their wit's end, hiding in plain sight? Can I be more available and more helpful? Can I be a refuge for them, and if so, how? What are the warning signs of someone considering suicide? Huge, HUGE topic to digest, and undoubtedly more significant than I can manage in a weekend. 

Events like these are nothing new; at 45, I've seen enough in my life to "know" these things already. Compressed into a week, I'm reminded how quickly life's noise can drown out the most important things. These events are reshaping how I'm approaching 2023 and accentuating my appreciation for my health, family, friends, and the relative safety and security in which I live.

*Much love to all this new year, and thank you for reading!*

Commit message:

more content clean-up take 3

content/posts/hindsight.md, after:

---
title: "Hindsight"
date: 2023-01-03T13:46:30-05:00
publishdate: 2023-01-03T13:46:30-05:00
draft: false
summary: 'Some quick-ish, personal anecdotes as we head into the new year and inspired by events at the end of 2022.'
tags: [personal]
---

Hindsight has been my most consistent teacher, and 2022 provided no shortage of opportunities to look backwards and learn (or remember) something. This past holiday season was particularly fruitful. To kick off my writing journey for the year, I wanted to start with some personal anecdotes inspired by recent events. Most of my writing will be tech or business-focused, so this first offering of the year may be a little abnormal. Cathartic perhaps. I figure someone may need a gentle nudge in the same direction, and I hope this helps.

**Remember the basics.**

A few days before Christmas, I was finishing up a minor remodel to our 1/2 bathroom. New paint, some new fixtures, nothing crazy. I had pulled out the sink to paint behind it correctly. As I was installing a new light fixture - a relatively simple task - I dropped my screwdriver, which perfectly hit one of the water lines from the wall. I mean, this was a 3/4" pipe, tiny. Dumb luck. The 30-year-old peanut brittle of a plastic pipe burst open as the valve hit the ground, filling the bathroom with at least an inch of water within a few moments. And here is a lesson about basics: Do you happen to know where your water shutoff is or how to shut the water off from your curb (if you're in a house)? Yep. I didn't. We've been here for a year, and other priorities distracted me from learning the home (*thanks, Netflix*). I'll keep the story short, but looking back, I should have known where the in-home shutoff was (it's in my coat closet, underneath a ton of other stuff, if you must know). Remember the basics. This applies to everything you do.

**Make (more) time for your family, especially if you're distant.**

On Dec. 26th, a family friend called to tell me that my stepmother had been admitted to hospice due to an aggressive form of cancer. Quick backstory, my father passed away about a decade ago, and my stepmother lived alone with no other family to speak of. However, she has an extensive family of friends for whom I'm incredibly grateful. She and I weren't incredibly close while he was alive, but we grew closer after his passing. Living several states away, we kept tabs on each other via social media, usually only speaking on holidays or around the anniversary of my father's passing. She had previously fought a long, hard battle with breast cancer, and I knew that she was both exhausted from that battle and sorely missing her life mate. She opted not to fight this round and passed peacefully only a couple of days after entering hospice. And the lesson for me? More hindsight. I didn't call her on Christmas Day as I usually would have. I was caught up in other things. Fortunately, we had a chance to see each other back in August, but why didn't I reach out more? Why didn't I invite her to my house more often or explicitly? Of course, this isn't about me - at all - but it's a stark reminder that relationships require effort and care, just like a garden. Don't forget about people in your life just because they're out of sight. 

**Keep an eye out for those around you who might be struggling in the shadows. Or - if you're struggling, find and accept help.**

To cap the holiday week, my wife and I were driving with our son on the interstate on the morning of New Year's Day. As we cleared an overpass, I noticed a car swerve in the lanes opposite us, dodging some trash in the onramp lane. But as we got to where the debris was, it was not trash but a human being lying on their back in the middle of the lane. As cars continued to race past, I came to a hard stop, leaving my wife and son safely in the truck on the far side of the interstate while I sprinted the 200m or so to this person. I was the first to arrive, while others helped to slow and redirect traffic. Thinking the worst, the woman I saw on the ground moved her head a little and moaned as I approached. She was a mess and certainly concussed, but she could give me her name. I asked her how she got into the middle of the interstate, to which she replied, "I jumped." before she passed out. With the help of others who had stopped, we tried to stabilize her while emergency crews quickly made their way to the scene.

Again trying to keep a long story from being too long, I had a 200m walk back to my truck to process what I saw and why. In that short walk, my life's blessings moved to the forefront. My first-world complaints became minuscule, sickening even. But the lesson? How many people in my life are at their wit's end, hiding in plain sight? Can I be more available and more helpful? Can I be a refuge for them, and if so, how? What are the warning signs of someone considering suicide? Huge, HUGE topic to digest, and undoubtedly more significant than I can manage in a weekend. 

Events like these are nothing new; at 45, I've seen enough in my life to "know" these things already. Compressed into a week, I'm reminded how quickly life's noise can drown out the most important things. These events are reshaping how I'm approaching 2023 and accentuating my appreciation for my health, family, friends, and the relative safety and security in which I live.

*Much love to all this new year, and thank you for reading!*
